April 12, 2021
211 Quality Circle
College Station, TX 77845
TollFree
(855) 7894268
Phone (979) 6917700
Fax (979) 6917750
www.Cognizant.com
Re: Vinoth Velmurugan(273951)
TO WHOMEVER IT MAY CONCERN
This letter is to confirm the direct employment of Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan (273951) with the
Cognizant family of companies worldwide, on a full time (3540
hours per week) basis.
Internal Band Level Start Date End Date Location
Programmer Analyst Trainee February 14, 2011 February 13, 2012 India
Programmer Analyst February 14, 2012 October 31, 2013 India
Associate Projects
November 01, 2013 January 31, 2016 India
Associate Projects
February 01, 2016 June 30, 2018 United States
Sr. Associate Projects
July 01, 2018 April 12, 2021 United States
At Cognizant, we employ an internal band level with an official grade description as specified in this
letter; however, Cognizant Business Units have mapped this official grade description to that of
functional job titles. Therefore, in addition to the band level/ grade description provided in this letter,
the employee will have had an official functional job title which is not captured in this letter.
As Programmer Analyst Trainee, Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan was responsible for developing web and
windows applications for natural gas and power scheduling systems using C#.NET, JavaScript,
ADO.Net, AJAX and SQL Server 2008 and ensure coding standards are met. He analyzed the
business functional requirement and ensure the requirements are successfully addressed, develop
unit test cases, coordinate with onsite team on technical specifications, requirement gaps and
complete the assigned user stories on time.
As Programmer Analyst, Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan was responsible for overseeing development and
ensure design meets requirement, create unit test case scenarios and ensure the successful
implementation of the requirements as expected by business, Coordinate with various teams involved
in the project and ensure project deadlines are met, use knowledge of platforms, frameworks,
methods, products to achieve business and systems solutions. He has gone through several training
programs and completed technical certification to strengthen his technical skills in Windows Forms,
Windows Presentation Foundation, ASP.Net 4.0, JavaScript, ADO.Net, AJAX and SQL server 2008.
Holds Microsoft certified technology specialist certification for developing web applications.
As Associate Projects,
Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan was responsible for developing page prototypes,
wireframes for web forms, single page applications and restful services applications using MVC 4.0,
C#.NET, Angular JS, WCF, WEB API, SQL Server, AJAX, JavaScript, LINQ and Entity Framework.
Identify and mitigate any technical gaps and or risks.
Page 1 of 2
As Associate Projects,
Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan was also responsible for addressing issue related to
application integration and compatibility. Design physical database schema, data modelling,
performance monitoring and SQL tuning with best practices and recommendations. Supports quality
assurance and User acceptance testing. He was involved in peer reviews on Design, Code and Unit
Test cases for ensuring the quality deliverables to the customer. He has conducted several technical
sessions to his team members on various technical topics which are latest in the field.
As Sr. Associate Projects,
Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan was responsible for designing and developing
functional modules for customer applications using latest cuttingedge
technologies like .NET5, .NET
CORE, Docker, Elastic Search, Kibana, Entity framework core, MVC 5, Angular 8, SQL server 2016.
Automate regular deployment process using Jenkins and other pipeline tools proven in the industry.
He migrates archive data from on premise to cloud solutions like S3 buckets and Azure blob storage.
Hosted .NET core API services in cloud and onpremise
infrastructure. He developed centralized
logging for multiple API services, web apps and create indexes, widgets to track application logs in
Elastic Search & Kibana. He followed Agile methodologies for the project execution strategy. Ensure
to adopt proven design patterns like dependency injection, repository, MVC, MVVM, singleton in
development projects. He worked alongside with customers, business analysts and other
development teams to develop and integrate complex application modules. He was also responsible
to execute projects by adopting various phases in software development life cycle (SDLC) like
requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, unit testing, integration testing, deployment and
application support.
Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan gained experience in the following:
Web Skills: Asp.Net Core, .NET 5, ASP.Net 3.5/4.5, IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0, JavaScript, jQuery, XML,
HTML 5, Razor Engine (CSHTML), Bootstrap, CSS, AJAX, Angular 48
and Web API Core
Data Access Skills: ADO.Net, ODBC, OLEDB, Entity Framework Core, Dapper
Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall and Iterative
Tools: Visual Studio 20082019,
VS Code
Languages: C#, VB.Net, HTML, SQL
Architecture: NTier,
MVVM and MVC 4/5
Distributed Technologies: Web Services, WCF, Rest API and Web API
Relational Databases: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2016, Oracle 9i/10g/11i
3rd Party Tools: DevExpress and Telerik
Version Control Tools: Visual Source Safe, Team Foundation Server and Git
Cloud Computing: Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Azure Functions, AWS S3 storage, AWS
API gateway, AWS Lambda, AWS EC2, Athena, Microsoft Azure Storage, Azure Boards, Azure
Repositories, Azure Pipelines, Jenkins, Azure SQL, Docker, Rabbit MQ, Service Bus
Testing Tools: NUnit
Sincerely,
For Cognizant Technology Solutions U.S. Corporation
Dravina R. Reddy
Senior Representative Human
Resources
April 12, 2021
Page 2 of 2


-------------------------------------------

NInfo Systems INC
4105 US Route 1 , Suite 14 , Monmouth Junction , NJ 08852
Phone: 248.274.3100, Email: hr@ninfosystemsinc.com, Website: www.ninfosysteminc.com


Senior .NET Developer 13th April 2021 27th September 2022 United States
As a Senior .NET Developer, Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan was responsible for delivering new and complex highquality
solutions to the clients in response to varying business requirements. Work closely with business
analysts, subject matter experts and development teams in design, development, testing, implementation,
and support of application projects. Design and develop new technology solutions, primarily in the .Net Core
and .NET framework, React JS that fulfill business requirements. Develop and integrate complex application
modules using .Net Core, .NET 6/5, ASP.NET, C#, n-Tier architecture and application development tools
such as Microsoft Visual Studio 2022/2019 and SQL Server Management Studio. Implement web-based
user interfaces in .NET core, .Net Framework using MVC5 architectural patterns, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript,
Angular, React JS. Perform/manage relational database design, normalization, T-SQL/stored procedures
with SQL Server 2016 – 2022. Build secure web applications with user authentication and role-based
access control. Integrate mapping APIs and web services to build interactive map-based
applications. Participate in the software testing process, including identification and resolution of defects.
Contribute to and support roll-out strategies. Participate in and contribute to formal/informal technical
reviews and presentations. Understand high level application architecture/design, network design,
performance constraints and security frameworks.
Mr. Vinoth Velmurugan gained experience in the following:
Web Skills: Asp.Net Core, .NET 6/5, React JS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, HTML 5, Bootstrap, CSS, AJAX,
and Web API Core
Data Access Skills: ADO.Net, ODBC, Entity Framework Core, Dapper
Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall and Iterative
Tools: Visual Studio 20082022, VS Code
Languages: C#, Typescript, SQL
Architecture: NTier, MVC, MVVM
Distributed Technologies: Web Services, WCF, Rest API and Web API
Relational Databases: SQL Server 2016-2022
3rd Party Tools: Dynatrace, Splunk
Version Control Tools: Git
Cloud Computing: Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Azure Functions, AWS S3 storage, AWS
API gateway, AWS Lambda, AWS EC2, Athena, Microsoft Azure Storage, Azure Boards, Azure
Repositories, Azure Pipelines, Jenkins, Azure SQL, Docker, Rabbit MQ, Service Bus
Testing Tools: NUnit


